Good afternoon.
We are beginning the second session, a very important session about education, civilization,
and its discontent.
Our speakers, our President Edouard Narcissio, Dr. Sharon Merman, who is President of Lacanien
International Association and co-founder of White Committee.
Claude Lundman, who is CEO Analyst from the Lacanien International Association, is Henri
Loton here, yes, Henri Loton, clinical professor of psychiatry, near here because medicine
months in high hospital.
Ernest Kafka, second-year-old, ancient president of this New York, second-year-old association
and Maria Ezejstein staying as a good fellow.
Thank you, Edouard, it's no time for you.
You can't hear me at all?
Thank you, Edouard.
Because China in Korea has made exponential changes,
we have theLin Rice family Atlasître de Brom
let's begin with another scenario,
clinic regmusic,
a busy and decided to crime
Vatican
people
no
Convention
As analysis is a MUSTY S usabeenses
Dear Them Sch Thema Wellich,
If the law can't assimilate the internal law
And dams, we can't
By the law we will never get to any inquiry
It supposed to be a conducive situation
presentations
as well as heavypour dissolved in virtual space in laboratories and laboratories in the
comster to work in universities, and in clinical medicine at utensils,opsy
work inlers and paper labs in sanitation, huns etc.
We're successful at the
senate administrationie.
The work of Construction
has given us a couple topic
we wish
This is an order problem.
Thank you.
As you can see, we have a common language
to speak between us.
The choice is English or French,
and we don't hear the same things in each language.
So I will create now a new language.
It's a pigeon made with bad French and bad English.
I think that pigeon is a very important language.
Because in this language, everybody is equal.
So, equally knowledge.
And in this language, there is no ideal.
And everybody is very glad to meet you, sir.
And to know that is like him.
There is a big writer in pigeon.
His name is James Joyce.
And as we like his works, maybe you will agree with my pigeon.
I agree with my pigeon.
I think that the Jewish language is a form of pigeon.
Because it's made of words which came from,
which come from all European nations, and from Hebrew.
Just grammar is German.
Maybe it's a dream.
If the Jewish was the language of the state of Israel,
maybe the things were different.
As we know, Fred said he didn't know why he was a Jew.
He was not religious.
It was not his nationality.
It was not his ethnic law.
So what?
But he said I feel I am a Jew.
What? What does it mean?
What we can say in my pigeon is that a Jew is a Jew.
Life, Fred.
It's all the way between two poles.
One is a text which he likes, which he wishes to understand.
He loves the true word of the text.
It's a word with its impressions.
And I think that on his couch with his adolescence,
he found that everybody who is speaking has the same status
between a text may be his unconscious.
And the word, the word where he is.
Come on, we're there.
Thank you.
In pigeon, it's the same language.
So the trade, the same trade of identification
is the trade of incifisms.
Incifisms.
But it's normal that we don't suffer it.
And each one wants or to have the true text, the less word,
the true religion and in the same way have the land,
which is a good one.
It's a real one.
I think that if Fred failed, it's because he wanted that for his
discipline, his followers.
That is full lovers.
That is full lovers had the last word of the East text
and he wrote the outline of psychoanalysis, his last word.
And he wanted that his school would be the true one,
the true land of his discipline.
So maybe that if we speak together a bit pigeon and remember
the truth, maybe we will obtain a better one.
Maybe we will be able to recognize that the other has the same
difficulty, some ourselves, the same.
And maybe this would be better for a future.
How do we find the architect's interest?
May 20th we ask that, theated year of low cost,
the
interest in government and
Okay, let's go.
It's in the Jews' ceremony.
She wants to continue, respond to what Charles said, loads and raise.
I'll continue where you started, in what sense was Freud in Jew?
The answer is, in the sense of the prophets of Israel,
he had a Savior or Redeemer complex of wanting to be the teacher of mankind.
And he got that idea from a fellow like Isaiah who said,
Chimiceon et cetera, udvar elo y mi ruschalain, which means,
from Zion will come light and God's word from Jerusalem.
So, talking psychologically and not geographically,
Freud is a domain of culture, which goes back to Jewish roots in that sense,
and he continues to teach mankind.
Now, what was he teaching about?
In my readings of Freud, I've come to the conclusion that the most important subject
is the word that you use in connection with La Ka, the fool there.
So, it's about love.
The basic message of Freud is about love, but he was shy about it,
and his shyness comes through in the essay called Civilization and its Discontense.
He cannot quite understand altruism of St. Francis or what love is about.
But if you read early Freud, if you go to an essay about which I wrote a number of papers now,
from 1905, which was written in 1892, which is before he was an analyst.
He talks there about love and hate and envy.
By the way, apropos Yiddish, his mother spoke Yiddish all her life to Freud.
So, he understood it very well and maybe spoke back too.
She died in 1930, and there is a famous photograph of him with his mother,
and you can see that Freud is a mama's boy.
So, he knew about love from the first teacher of love, which is the mother.
Now, the place where he talks about love explicitly is in his letter to Einstein.
Einstein asked him, Dr. Freud, the great psychologist of our time,
what can you give us as an advice to end war?
And that is the essay Why War?
And Freud says, increase errors in the platonic sense as well of non-sexual love,
but love writ large.
So, there is explicit.
Now, since we are talking about education, he said there are two impossible professionals,
teaching and psychoanalysis.
So, the educational aspect of psychoanalysis has not been stressed enough in our writings.
It's not just the hard-wiring of the brain for learning, but the learning experience
that the analyst is really a teacher to his patient as well as to society.
So, again, what does the analyst teach?
What the mother teaches the child when he still doesn't know how to talk?
The mother is a teacher of love and language.
We have the broker center in the brain, but if it's not stimulated by a relationship
of the mother who teaches, the child will not speak.
And the wild children of a home are the proof of that,
that children in the wild who are not taught language cannot learn at any time again.
So, if the Freud is a teacher who is wanting to teach mankind love,
the analyst in his profession is also teaching the patient how to love.
And here I would say, I would say, Erich Fromme made an important contribution
in the art of loving.
And you teach sites from Deuteronomy, from the Book of Moses,
love your neighbor like yourself.
Why like yourself?
Because if you do not love yourself, you cannot love another person.
You will not understand a gesture of love if you don't have the love in you.
There are many disappointments in love, of course.
But the connection between healthy self-love and love of the other is very important.
What do you need to have that love your neighbor like you love yourself?
Basically, it's also hardwired and God-given if somebody doesn't destroy it.
So the child has an instinct to love and the mother has an instinct to give love.
And I'm always surprised that people like Margaret Mahler,
who is very eloquent about the mother-child relationship,
never mentioned the word love in it.
I heard the other day, a lecture by Beatrice Beebe,
who was a wonderful researcher of the maternal child infant tie,
but she also didn't use the word love.
It's all about rapprochement, about closeness or things like that,
but love is the essential ingredient in that relationship.
So I want to make my final point by juxtaposing it to what's the malays.
We are, as people today, under the influence of monotechnology,
we are now texting and texting instead of talking to each other.
This is a deficiency of love.
And in Boston, the IPA in July, there was a very good talk by Chris Bolas
about the decline of love in society, which is al-Malays,
that the religious have become so artificial through technology
that people don't face each other, they don't see each other,
they don't touch each other.
The opposite of love is hate-print, and the opposite of good is evil.
And Freud was concerned with evil after, during and after World War I,
and he wrote about it and used the word evil.
So what is the evil in our time?
In one sense, it's lovelessness, and in another sense,
it's a rise of violence as a mode of being.
And this is what we now see worldwide.
After two wars, which should have taught us, the end-to-end-all wars,
we are here involved in a global chronic warfare.
We've lived now through the crisis in France,
we've just had here a shooting the other day in California,
we are really involved in the evil of violence.
And here is something that we can transmit as a message,
but to achieve it takes a lot of work.
Thank you.
APPLAUSE
Well, after what my colleagues have already said,
I want to emphasize, especially one point,
that is that Freud reintroduced in our modern culture,
in the cultural modernity.
What ancient Greeks?
What was for ancient Greeks obvious,
that the relation to knowledge was linked by love?
We had to wait 2,500 years if we refer to
Plato's symposium.
We had to wait 200, 500 years to allow Freud to say that
transference love was the basis of any kind of relationship.
And it was the basis of education.
The ancient Greeks knew that,
and we have all testimonies of this fact.
Love, transference love,
which Freud sized with his encounter of hysteria,
of hysterical patience,
these recognitions of transference love,
and he extended it to all the mankind relationship.
So we are in depth to lackum,
to identify the structure of what is the stick
of transference love.
A marvelous object,
the marvelous object that El Cebiades has seen in Socratic,
and lackum in his seminar transference,
tried to demonstrate that this marvelous object
is the object of the fantasy.
And when you are not able,
after psychoanalyzes,
to understand, to realize that,
you can, I just want to make here,
I just want to quote what El Cebiades said
to, in the symposiums.
Excuse me.
El Cebiades said
that when he saw what Socratic receives,
the Agarma, the marvelous object he receives,
he said,
there is, there remained only one thing to do,
as soon as possible, by quickest means,
do whatever Socratic commands.
This type of submission to the one
who is supposed to receive the precious object
which is supposed to know,
to know what is the knowledge
that can be a total submission with no division,
and the psychoanalyzes is able to avoid for a subject,
to be in that kind of position.
That means that kind of submission we can find,
in the relationship to a leader, to a fume,
or also to a text with a T capital,
revealed or not revealed.
I would like to emphasize also that,
after the exchange of this morning,
that the new type of terrorism,
which surge from the last decades,
is part of our civilization.
I think our mass civilization is a civilization
of enjoyment, and there is an enjoyment
for those people, what,
terrorists who are ready to kill and to be killed,
an enjoyment of the nothing,
of the nephew, and I want to emphasize this point,
because there is a market of enjoyment,
but how can we understand that young people
who are not Muslim, in France,
young people can be seduced
by the way we know the social networks,
internet, can be seduced by this kind of enjoyment,
which is a kind of enjoyment of the knee,
and that we can refer to the death drive,
that Freud discovered and emphasized in civilization
in this content.
I think, from a point out that this kind of death drive,
is what later on, like we call,
Jewishness, enjoyment, and the enjoyment of the nothing,
of the knee hill, is the expression,
in our world today of the death drive.
Okay, I will stop there.
I have a couple of questions, but let's hear from Ernie.
Well, I'm a late arrival and a semi-volunteer in this chair,
and I anticipate having a certain amount of negative response
to whatever I have to say, because I'm generally regarded
as first of all too provocative,
and secondly too incomprehensible,
and then there are a few other problems about me,
but I'll do my best to try to put my thoughts into a form
which at least you'll be able to follow me,
and whether you agree or not.
The first thought is that participating in a group like this,
whether you call it pigeon or whether you call it the tower of babble,
there is always a very individual quality
to the way that the speakers look at things,
and the connection and so forth.
As with art criticism or analysis of confidential spy data, et cetera,
it requires a lot of translation,
and as we all know, a translation is never really truly faithful
to the original meaning or the original intent of the persons who are speaking,
and of course we also realize that the original intent
and the original meaning is not really something that can be closely defined,
because meanings are very multiple, and the words have different meanings.
Sometimes identical words in different contexts have opposite meanings.
Freud, one of the things of course that Freud imposed upon us
the following directions was, generations was,
the understanding, and to some extent, the even more than intellectual understanding,
of the fact that in our minds, things are going on constantly,
which are mutually contradictory, which are not even sequentially satisfiable,
and which are not necessarily definable.
And this situation of course also exists in other elements,
in other branches of knowledge. For instance, current physics,
which is supposed to be an experimental field,
has one theory, which is not very popular anymore,
string theory, for which there's no possible experiment.
Nobody can figure out how you can do an experiment to support it or not support it.
There's a nice interesting book by a very charming
and delightful author named George Muster,
who takes up again the problem of mechanics
in terms of the Newtonian physics, the pinball,
or the, what is it that you play with it?
With the eight billiards.
Everything happens by contact. One particle gets,
hits another particle and it beards up, etc., etc.,
versus what is the, how do you then account for the attraction of gravity
or the appearance of ripples on the water
or static electricity, etc.
Which seems to operate at a distance. So we have no solution to this.
There are many other things that we are interested in knowing
about, about which we have no solution.
As a matter of fact, if you draw a list of opposites, like reality
and fantasy, how does reality, how do they connect,
how do they integrate if they integrate? If you take Charlie Brenner's idea
about everything as a compromise formation, well, how does that take place?
All it is, is another way of saying something that we really have known for a long time,
that a lot of different factors, inclinations, forces, etc.,
mechanics go into every act that we commit, and we don't know all of what's going on.
So you cover it with a piece of language
which may satisfy some people that now we know something more than we knew before,
but generally I wouldn't say that's the truth.
I mean, a whole list while I was talking here of these things.
We have Naturvissenschaft and we have Geistus Visenschaft.
Naturvissenschaft is supposed to be the experimental learning about the real world.
The Geistus Visenschaft is supposed to be the study of human relationships
and psychology and anthropology and so forth.
This is like what's the brain and what's the mind?
Well, we have a mind, and what the mind is is something which we look at,
the brain from a certain point of view, and the brain is something which we look at
with our minds from a point of view, but how do they connect?
Well, we're in the dark ages.
Similarly, secondary process and primary process.
The original problem that Freud solved with the topographic theory is still a problem.
We still have a problem with the topographic theory.
How does the unconscious become unconscious?
How does the unconscious become conscious?
What about the unconscious, which was never conscious, et cetera, et cetera?
We haven't any really satisfactory answers to that question.
OK, I just want to tell you the name of the book by George Muster is
Spooky Activity at a Distance.
It's a charming book, and I recommended it to you.
Then we have the question of language, which this gentleman brought up.
What is the connection between Chomsky's deep language, which is supposedly a
neurological development, which takes place at approximately the same age in every human being
all over the world, and the language which we learn, like English or Yiddish or whatever it is,
and how is one communicate with the other and go together with the other?
It has a law of cause and effect, which we regard as a sort of sacrosanct,
at least insofar as the fact that the cause has to proceed the effect.
This is also part of what apparently appears as part of the deep language,
the difference between a verb and a noun and what's acted on and what's acting,
which seems to just appear in a certain way, everywhere.
Anyway, so I think we have a lot of problems.
There's a lot we don't know.
When it comes to social problems, let's say, in the Gastis Visinschaft,
if you look at the history of the world in the last hundred years,
you wouldn't say that it's been very tranquil.
We've had a world of one, a world of two,
we've had multiplication of populations which have been enormous
and beyond the capacity of countries to deal with and to manage.
We've had migrations of peoples which were very interesting to Tolstoy
when he wrote about the Napoleonic War in Russia.
How does it happen that these masses of people get up and they go and they invade it,
they move and what does this?
What is the aura of a leader?
How does Hitler get to be loved by hundreds of millions of people?
And he was loved by hundreds of millions of people.
They followed him and they did everything.
What kind of communication is involved from him to somebody else?
And what language is it that he is speaking when he communicates his enthusiasm and his aura?
There's so many things we don't know.
So we're in a great situation, let's say, of ignorance.
And nobody likes to be ignorant and everybody likes to think.
They know and they want to know what's going to happen next,
whether it's in the stock market or whether it's their children and grandchildren,
and they want to make sure that things go sort of the way that it wants to do.
But they have no way of knowing what the next cataclysm is going to be.
And they're somewhere in their minds they're aware of.
Now, two years ago, I didn't wake up one morning,
but I woke up six weeks later in a hospital.
And the thing was that my dog found me lying on the floor in the bathroom in Florida
where we were living.
And I was whisked off to a nearby emergency room
and where my stopped heart was revived and so forth.
And people operated on me and did this and that and so forth.
But I missed six weeks of life.
And by the time I came back, there was such a delirium that I didn't know where I was,
or what was happening on it.
And I had the most mysterious hallucinations and complicated stories
which actually would be very interesting to make into some fiction.
But I had no pre-monition about this and the doctors didn't tell me that there was something wrong.
But it made a significant difference in my life to the extent that post-traumatic stress disorder
is not something that I can just say.
I know about and so on.
I'll tell you something else.
About the effect of the war.
I was born in Vienna and at a certain point my family moved to New York.
There were many anxious days between 1932 when I was born
and the end of 1938 when we arrived in New York.
And many people were lost to me.
My original language was lost to me.
Many foods, ayes, aromas, all kinds of things disappeared.
And I came to a country in which I was hardly welcome,
which was in the throes of a depression, which had a population,
which was hardly at all eager to get involved with the miserable affairs of Europe
for which the Europeans were blamed or the Jews were blamed to some extent.
So it was a difficult time.
The result of this was significantly, if I look back on it,
that it had a profound effect on my character, my personality, my choice of profession, whatever it is.
First, because of the relic of the central European background I had.
And Freud was a friend of my family.
So I heard, oh, Freud, oh, Freud, Freud, oh, my life.
So I thought he was a kind of interesting guy.
And he belonged to the Knai Brif, of which my great grandfather was the general secretary.
And so I called on it.
And then somebody told me, with psychoanalysis, you can make people better than they were before they got sick.
And I thought that was great.
So that was the relics of the past.
But there are also relics of the traumatic aspects of it,
which, like, certainly aggravated by this health problem that I had a couple of years ago.
But if you want to understand psychology and really approach group psychology,
and first of all, the group is made up of people who feel that they have some similarity.
That there's some kind of chemistry, that there's some kind of unity,
that there's some kind of safety in something which is like an extension of a family.
Or a tribe.
Or a nation.
Or a religion.
So there are these attracting qualities.
And then there is the definition of what one is is by what one is not.
Hi, Ericsson.
There was a son of a senator.
Shasta?
You don't have to stop, and you were understandable.
It wasn't.
You started by introducing your comments and you're not usually understandable.
I think you were...
The relevance.
You were only understandable whether...
But the relevance.
I agreed with everything you said, I don't know.
Do you want to respond to something you said?
Yeah, I want to pick up at one point that Ernie, that you made.
First of all, your background is fascinating.
Coming from Vienna and all these connections and the immigration and everything.
I mean, you should write a memoir about yourself.
He's brilliant.
Okay.
But I want to pick up on what you mentioned is Freud's essay of 1921.
Group psychology and also the ego.
It's crucial to understand the dynamics of what's going with the jihadists today.
To understand this even better, you should also know what Stalin and Hitler did with their
youth in Russia, in the Soviet Union, in Germany.
They both made an appeal to the young to leave their families and give their allegiance to the leader.
Stalin did that and Hitler did that too with the Hitler you went.
He said, and he made them swear allegiance to him with the Hitler-eyed.
So the point that Freud made in this essay is what is the role of the leader and the masters?
Why is the leader attractive?
Number one, he gives them love.
And number two, he gives them absolution from doing evil because he takes on their conscience
and says, I am the leader of your conscience and I permit you to kill in the name of whatever
you choose to kill.
And the same thing happened with Mao Zedong and the revolution of the Red Revolution in
China.
And there was always a transition from the traditional family, from the traditional society
to the new leader who promises them paradise.
Well, if I may answer this, you omit the context in which these things take place.
The context in which Hitler promoted this idea was betrayal in the First World War and so on
and so forth.
And the first of the Germans and the terrible Versailles Treaty and revenge and of course
this happened after the end of the First World War in the Treaty of Versailles.
The French and the British couldn't stop the war because they were so busy negotiating
about which parts of the Ottoman Empire they would take over at the end of the war.
So and the French wanted revenge.
And well, let me go on just a second.
And I've been watching the television series that somebody made about the Second World
War and the same methods are used to make killers out of our Marine Corps or out of our army
as were used by Hitler.
And one of the men says, well, when I enlisted I really didn't understand how you could kill.
But they trained us to kill, they trained us to kill, but it wasn't until I got to
Taurawa, the Japanese island which was captured with great difficulty, when I saw that my
buddies who were captured by the Japanese were tortured and their genitals were stuffed in their mouth.
Then I said, I'm going to kill and I'm going to kill every day.
I won't stop until it's done.
I think you make a good point, which is what I was trying to get on when I made my introductory comments.
You can train people to do evil things.
But then evil in their minds.
Well, in the context of I'm defending my country and not everything.
Well, that's part of the training. In other words, you can use various...
Well, it's also part of the reality.
It was real that Hitler was going to take over and that you would be under a dictatorship
which was cruel, sadistic and so forth.
I understand that, but what I'm trying to say is that there is something about the way
the mind is or the brain is that you can actually train it to do things that you would imagine
normally that person would do one of them.
But not without killing.
And the normal reality.
But the reality is not normal. You need an abnormal reality in order to carry that out.
Like the Germans needed an abnormal reality in Germany.
I know this chaotic structure of depression, hunger, out of work, etc.
They needed that.
I don't dispute the context, which is why I said there are other factors involved in what's going on now
and there have always been other factors involved, whether they were economic, social, whatever.
You always have other factors involved.
But I'm a little bit concerned about two things that the two of you talked about, which is this business
that in a way Freud created this duality between libido and aggression or love and aggression.
But things are not that simple because Freud also introduced the concept of ambivalence.
So when you talk about...
It comes from Bloyler.
Fine. It comes from Bloyler.
But that pertains more to a psychotic state than what the way Freud used it.
But the concept... So it's not so simple that all you have to do is just to give love
and it would stop the work of aggression because sometimes very aggressive acts are committed
out of the person's sense of love.
One of those is when at the end there are situations where a husband or a wife kills the other
because she's the other in such distress or suffering or whatever that just commits
to what we would consider an aggressive act.
So it's not... I think to make it black and white today is a bit too simple.
And I think that applies to this business of the death instinct.
We can't just say, well, it's the death instinct that causes it.
Because it explains nothing.
It says nothing.
First of all, we don't even know if it exists.
But even if it exists, what causes it to do something at one point and not at another point
is mysterious.
So I think things are not as clear.
I don't dispute the value of love.
But...
So what do you dispute?
Well, I didn't...
I was right when I said, I hope you hear...
No, no, I agreed with what...
I didn't say... I said... My idea about that, about the disparity between the two extremes,
is that Freud pointed these out and he forced us in a certain way to look at them.
And of course, he also pointed out that they were extremes in the unconscious...
You know, what I said, opposites of Saint Laurent and so forth.
But these are difficult.
We float around in a land of a miasma of incomprehension.
We don't understand where the universe came from.
We can't really figure out about the black holes.
We can't see why... reconcile what you call it, the relativity and the particle physics and so forth.
Because this... the information we have...
This is a piece of this piece of this.
How does it fit together? We don't know.
Now, does that make us happy?
No.
And the second thing is that we have all lived through times in which we have been traumatized.
And it's not only being separated from the mother.
It's not only from having no parents because half the population has been killed.
It's not only that... that growth.
Now we learn that... all right, also in smaller ways.
You have an operation and you have a psychotic episode afterwards, right?
After you recover. Once you've had that, you'll never forget it.
I'm telling you...
Once you've had a serious depression, you'll never forget that this happened to you.
And it will make you continually somewhat apprehensive.
Give him a chance, yeah.
Love.
For... for... for Fred was first heroes.
It's not love in general. It's... heroes.
That means the problem... the problem is...
Are we able to consider that... love...
heroes... is linked with the knowledge?
That is important.
Point I would like to emphasize today.
Because it is... what we can... we can... feel in our practice of psychoanalysis.
But the patient, the love transference, is related to what the patient supposed.
We know about his desire, about his unconscious.
So this is not love in general and not... not only...
mother's love, but love... that's called... heroes.
In reference to... to God's heroes.
Which was the little God who... who... who made difficulties to...
everybody.
So I think this is... I want to... to... to... to... to... to make a precision here.
It's not love in general. We have to deal in psychoanalysis.
We have to deal with love, hate and knowledge.
And the difficulty is to link this... this... three... and on references.
I think it would need a whole...
...
is now... we prefer to speak of sexuality or... everything, but love has become an obscene concept.
It's very odd.
A full-on of word.
Exactly. But... what I wanted to say is that of course... it's very... very... things are very complicated.
Because the young people, those young French or Belgian... who...
... leave to go and be trained by Al-Qaeda and work with...
... is this. They are also looking for love. They are looking for a family...
... which will love them and invest them.
The problem is that there is a kind of love... which is a total love...
... which includes total submission to the object.
And another kind of love... which is... a love with the capacity...
... of keeping... a... his or her thinking process.
So the capacity to love, but to say no.
That I will not do. I will not accept.
And those two kinds of love are very different.
I think if I didn't try to say that hatred is older than love...
He did. Yeah, this was an opinion.
This was an opinion?
An opinion.
He said it's worse.
It's an opinion. It's not a proved fact.
Well, that's true of a lot of stuff.
I want to respond to you, Marini.
First of all, women understand love somewhat better than men.
I don't know about this.
It's an opinion.
That was a proof.
But the proof of it is in the symposium on love.
In the symposium, Socrates finally goes to Dioteema...
... and says, teach us about it.
So that's a fact.
Now, I wasn't offering a simple solution.
Far from me, I was...
... an exciting Freud.
I was trying to say this is the enormity of the problem.
We are supposed to say something to UNESCO and the United Nations.
So our job here is practical, not theoretical.
I don't care much about Freud's theories.
I care about Freud's method, which is where it is.
Now, from that point of view, we are now...
We have to solve many problems of mankind.
We have to solve the problem of the Third World War...
... to do everything to avoid confrontations between the Soviets now, the Russians...
... and the Americans in a global confrontation, which is a very serious matter.
And we have to take care of the environment.
And we have to teach something, the world, about the lovelessness that there is...
... and how to increase it.
So these are all important educational tasks for somebody like ourselves, a psychoanalyst.
I agree.
I heard that a lot of young people in New York...
... I don't know if it's true from the States, because nowadays, because of the ease of communication...
... people from all over the country, all over the world, communicate with each other.
But I heard a lot of young people, when there was the reaction to the events in Paris...
... a lot of people were very upset in this city.
But a lot of young people said, how come nobody was upset...
... when just a few days or weeks before there was the event in Beirut...
... and nobody was upset when there was the plane crash in Egypt.
And so, in a way, it continues to be a certain difference of reaction...
... over terrorist attacks that we are subjectively feel...
... in this current situation, which I think also needs explaining.
No, no, I agree.
And so, is it that you love the French more than you love the Egyptians...
... or the Russians or the people from Beirut?
No, there is a simpler explanation.
It's what the journalists prepare for us to read.
As far as I'm concerned, I feel compassion...
... and I feel moved by any violence anywhere in the world...
... where innocent people are killed.
Whether it's Beirut, whether it's the West Bank, whether it's Israel, whether it's California...
... any such event is like John Don said, in for whom the bell tolls...
... the bell tolls for us, because we are now living in a global world.
Yeah, but you don't solve the problem, because what you are saying is...
... this is well, me, I'm the compassionate man.
But the reality of it is that a majority of people in this city...
... that I know better than the rest of the country...
... reacted a lot more to the events in Paris...
... than they did to the other events.
And same innocent people were killed.
Yes.
Well...
You don't need my permission, not the teacher.
I don't have to worry.
You don't need my permission.
Okay.
I don't need it.
Yeah.
There we go.
I had somebody mentioned the transference...
... which would be hard not to hear, not to have mention.
The interesting thing about the transference...
... about one of my analyses was...
... I was a youthful and naive person at the time...
... and I said to my training analyst at that time...
... Martin was Martin's dad.
I said, Martin, you know...
... I know what you're like, because I can tell what you're like.
You're quite moral and you're somewhat moralistic...
... and you're also diffident and shy.
And he said, that's transference.
I said, no, that's reality.
I really know that that's true.
He says, that doesn't mean anything.
Transference can be reality.
Transference is the same as the reality.
And after a long time, I came to the realization...
... that one of the things that we learned at the beginning...
... which was to adopt this very objective attitude...
... that the patient is looking out the window...
... and telling you what he sees...
... and the doctor is like a surgeon...
... and he has a field in front of it...
... and he's not really involved with it...
... is wrong.
That if you don't have a so-called, let's say...
... what do they call it?
Therapeutic relationship, which...
... people like Phyllis Greenacre said...
... goes back to infancy and the relationship will co-op.
And the relationship to the mother.
If you don't have that, in reality in some way...
... there has to be some communication between you and the patient.
And oftentimes, that is enhanced by your having had somewhat similar experiences.
And when I was interviewed, it was at a time...
... when people thought the criteria for an analytic training...
... would be that the person was a literate, cultivated person.
So people ask me, what are you reading now?
And they didn't want to know what I was reading...
... or chemistry, or Freud's Freud.
They wanted to know what literature I was reading.
And so the question of what do you know from life as you get older...
... and how does it add to your wisdom and your capacity to have a relationship with the patient...
... and understanding what the patient has to say is extremely important.
So without a similarity of some kind, a shared experience...
... there's no transference that develops.
And the person has to have a certain confidence.
So are you saying that's the...
... to understand it?
Are you saying that's the reason for the response different to the events in Paris...
... in Chiang La Ché?
Yes, the people who you live with, who are on your block, who you see at the cafe...
... are more important to you. You have a connection with them.
You already know each other in a certain way.
And not only on a verbal basis, but you dance the same way French women can walk...
... in a way which is so wonderful that no other women can do it.
I'm going to stop there reading the French women.
Do you all want to say one last thing before I go to the audience?
But at the point that you raised earlier, we should have...
... psychoanalysts and volunteers to go to churches, to town meetings...
... to all kinds of groups and address these young people...
... and give them a different message and teach them something about it.
This is what we should be doing.
There are two points.
I think you are two. Third, what a prophet.
You are the prophet of the fact that there is no prophetess.
Because at the end of the queue, he teaches to each of his analyzant...
... the answer is no voice to answer his sufferings.
And he has to do by himself.
So you are true, it was a prophet.
That's right.
The second point, love.
Love begins when I miss something...
... I don't know what.
But it is sure that something very important...
... because with this loss, I begin to be a lover.
I begin to know what is love.
But if I meet the real object I lost...
... so begin hatred.
So, too long, the best love is able to begin hatred.
And hatred, sorry.
And it is true that truth...
... with this follow-up of us...
... that we are all human beings.
He knew that.
His best love is...
... where is the murders?
Like Moses.
Like Moses. It is true.
So I think we have a certain mind...
... when we speak about true love.
Thank you.
Love, ladies, give me a few of us.
For you?
Maria?
Okay, questions.
Same place.
Thank you.
Reporting in the microphone.
I'm wearing my belt.
Well, we all know that it's possible to quote Freud on both sides...
... of probably every major question, including love.
And while that's true, I would like to...
... disagree with my good friend, Svi, and say that the sort of angle he's taking...
... interpreting Freud is somewhat historic.
First of all, factually Freud's relationship with his mother, we now know...
... his consensus was very problematic, if not traumatic.
The whole idea of my golden siggie turns out to be a big myth.
And as a result, he felt unlovable.
He wrote that to Martha, and he wrote that to Yolm.
And loving was very problematic for him.
And to suggest...
... Freud said, yes, psychoanalysis is through love.
By which I think he meant it was a cure through transference.
But I think his letters to Roman Rolon, for example...
... go against what Svi was suggesting, namely that he thought love was the answer.
I mean, he wrote to Rolon and said, well, this vision of universal love that you're promoting...
... he said, it's very beautiful.
But he said, but as a Jew, with the history of my people, I simply can't agree with it or describe to it.
I think the real text to look to, to try and decipher his position on love or an important text...
... is inhibition symptoms and anxiety.
And there love comes up in the context of his discussion of helplessness.
And he says, because we're born so helpless, we're dependent for an extraordinary long time...
... and love plays a bigger role for the human species than any other.
So the need for love grows out of infantile helplessness.
As does the need for religion, they both have the same source of infantile helplessness.
So I think his position is, or the...
... and position is, that if the child with this need for love meets a good enough environment, the facilitating environment...
... they can overcome their omnipotence in a good enough way.
And love in, what we call, healthy life, a lack of a better work.
But if the child doesn't encounter a good enough facilitating environment, they don't resolve their need for omnipotence efficiently.
And I think that's what really is totalitarianism, the fundamentalism, and the fascism.
And their love is really based on...
... the model for love is the hypnotist.
That the one is mesmerized by the love object and wants to become totally subservient to it.
And then one last point to tie in the remarks about for its Judaism.
I think if you can make a case that when Freud says, well, you know, I don't read the whole text, I'm not practicing jublah blah blah blah, what's left?
I think what's left for him is his identification with Moses.
And identification with Moses in a particular sense.
Moses was the iconic class, was the destroyer of idols, with the...
... Moses was involved in a particular illusion, like Freud later became involved there.
And I think for him, that's what was fundamental.
And that's what allowed him to claim he was maybe the best Jew that ever existed.
But then you have to...
... I have to point out something about the homo zed tradition.
And Jan Osman has discussed this in length.
That with the whole notion of the mosaic divide between the true gods and the false gods, critique became possible.
Later science became possible.
But also religious hatred and fundamentalism became possible.
So there is a tremendous ambiguity in this identification with Moses.
It seems like it's absolutely necessary if one wants to be involved in the critique of idols, the destruction of illusion.
But on the other hand, because there seems to be this divide between true and false gods, religious violence and hatred is also latent in it.
Thank you.
I'm Ed Robbins from New York.
And just to add a little bit to what Joel was speaking about, that God in the Judeo-Christian tradition is seen as the totally other.
And from that point of view, God can be hated as well as loved.
And that often the equation is made between the mother as being the first Gansandere.
They're totally different.
And that in that sense that there is a total difference, there is a hatred that is appropriate.
And I think it's why, and I would disagree with Z on this very much, that in several places Freud says,
hatred is primary to love in humans.
It's fundamental first, and love comes after that.
Any other comments, questions?
Can I just... Yes.
It's an answer to you.
I think that when Freud says that hatred is primal, he really means that, of course, hatred must be primal because you have to recognize the other to be able to love him.
Exactly.
If you want to, I think Charles wanted to say, there is a proof of it when a boy, big boy, leaves with this mother.
He doesn't know what is love.
Maybe he's happy, maybe.
But he doesn't know what is love about.
He will begin always to hate her.
And sometimes, at the end of this complicity is a treasure.
So you know, effectively, that hatred, modile, la pézons mém de rabche, the presence of the object.
Generates hatred.
Ed Warbenz, I agree with you about that, Ed Warbenz.
But there is...
You have to come to the...
Close London man.
About this enjoyment of me here that you spoke about earlier in our civilization.
I think you can elaborate.
It's difficult. It needs time to elaborate that.
I think this is the question.
The problem is that, like I said, many young French people were not Muslims,
as being seduced by a kind of enjoyment shown on the social network, on the internet.
And...
Adirate to Islam, but not really in a religious way.
They want to participate through this kind of enjoyment, enjoyment, which is...
Which I try to explain by the enjoyment of the nihil, of the nothing, just the destruction.
But not only a destruction. The people who killed the young French Muslims,
who killed the young French people, who were in the Bataclan.
Some weeks before, they went to dance, to drink alcohol.
They were not really... It's not really a kind of religious fanaticism.
It's something more, or even something less. I don't know.
But I speak on a French point of view.
And what I'd say is that... Why are we most concerned about what happened in Paris,
and in Beirut, or in Chamecheque?
I think we are most concerned because French young people were not all ignorant,
who share until some weeks before they commit their crimes.
We share with other young French people share the same way of enjoying.
In a few weeks or few days, they became killers, and enjoy that.
I think there is a market of enjoyment in our mass civilization.
And this market of enjoyment is very polymorph.
It's a protest.
And one of its form is this kind of nihilism.
But it is always in our civilization.
We don't have to think that there is a war between a civilization against another civilization.
Like you said, we are a global world.
I repeat it. I will repeat the accusation.
At least among the militant Muslims who kill others and then kill themselves,
I would say there is a jouisance of the cruelty and the sadism.
So this is the problem here.
But I think when it comes to the French jihadi and the French killers,
they were also anti-Semitic.
They were anti-Semitic.
Well, not all.
I'm not saying all.
I'm not saying all but enough. So on the one hand, anti-Semitism plays a role.
And I would say that from the vantage point of history,
the militant Muslims today are doing from the Catholic Church,
did in the Middle Ages with the Inquisition.
And in that sense, there is a conflict between this conception and the civilized world.
I mean, it's complicated by the fact that the big powers are still warmongering
and arranging all kinds of proxy wars.
But at least there is a certain consensus,
and I would like to mention one more element about Freud,
that he believed in the power of reason and the power of dialogue and negotiation.
Which goes to the Lumiere, the enlightenment.
And that aspect is also endangered today.
That was your point where I am not speaking about what is happening in the Middle East.
I'm speaking of the French situation, of the French young Muslims.
And also the French young terrorists were not Muslim.
And were educated.
I think it's too easy to oppose Islam to a kind of radicalism of Islam to the rest of the civilized world.
I'm talking about the militant Islam, I'm not talking about all of Islam.
We were talking about what happened in Paris and Ed's asked why we were most concerned,
but what happened in Paris in Egypt.
So I tried to give an answer, I don't pretend it's a good one.
We have to discuss about that.
But I would like to emphasize after the questions, the young lady has asked me,
that there is really a market of enjoyment.
Charles Pigeon used to say that when you take drugs,
it's a kind of enjoyment who leads to death.
Which leads to death?
Is it a real important difference between a young French American guy or girl
who is a terrorist or who is a drug addict?
There is also another thing I wanted to say.
The problem, the hyper-nysis, the narcissism, the people in France and the former killing in November.
The guy registered himself and with a record.
You remember that?
It is the selfie, the narcissism.
It's all part of the way the young terrorist, almost in France,
try to exist.
I don't know.
It concerns psychoanalysts.
I want to put in a word for something that in France is not always appreciated.
That is ego psychology.
There is also maturation.
I give you an example from my life.
I have been with my wife for 62 years.
Until she became demented, I did not realize how much I loved her.
I didn't realize how much.
Very significant.
Second example.
That has to do with, you have to be a little bit old.
So something which at a certain point in life does not have a great significance.
Like the death of somebody for a child, you can attribute the non-response to whatever you
want.
You can say it's denial or you can say whatever it is.
But at a certain point, the guilt, the mourning, and also if you talk about survivor guilt,
you have to survive sometimes for quite a long time before you experience the guilt that you have for
surviving.
It's not all narcissism or Jewish songs.
It's also judgment and experience.
It's also how human you are and how not human you are when you're an adolescent or a child.
Last comment from Emil Malle, a static earlier.
Before love in sequinaries, I think it's very interesting to have a comparison between sequinaries and the Bible and the Talmud.
You will love your brother as yourself, but this is written after the biological signification of life.
If you take the signification of life with Ka'an and Abel, there is a crime.
If you take Abraham to see two brothers, it's like the ismail.
If you take Joseph and the brothers, the brothers are against Joseph.
What happens?
Why it is written after Chichaka Mohai?
You will love your brother.
This is the symbolic law.
The symbolic law is coming after the Bologic Act.
This I think is very interesting.
I think, and constantly, there is a Jewish heritage in the sequinaries of poet.
I guess you won't need to keep saying you have to love your brother unless there was reason for it.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next meeting is at the...
What is it now?
How fast are you?